chore: Add DO Apps documentation page (#176)
paralect/ship: doc/docs/deployment/digital-ocean-apps.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Digital Ocean Apps

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a simplified deployment type without Kubernetes. This type is **recommended** for most new applications because it allows you to set up infrastructure faster and doesn't require additional DevOps knowledge from the development team. You can switch to a more complex Kubernetes solution when your application will be at scale.
```

> It's a step-by-step Ship deployment guide. We will use Digital Ocean Managed [Apps platform](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/app-platform) and [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for automated deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's a step-by-step Ship deployment guide. We will use the [Digital Ocean Apps](https://www.digitalocean.com/products/app-platform) and [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for automated deployment. MongoDB Atlas and Redis Cloud for databases deployment, and [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) for DNS and SSL configuration.
```

For DNS and SSL configuration [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) will be used.
For database we will use MongoDB hosted on [Mongo Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/).

You need to create [GitHub](https://github.com/), [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/), [CloudFlare](https://www.cloudflare.com/), [Mongo Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas/register) and [Redis](https://redis.com/try-free/) accounts.

Also, you need git and Node.js if you already haven't.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip

[Migrator](https://github.com/docs/migrator.md) and [Scheduler](https://github.com/docs/scheduler.md) will run in a Docker container for API. Unlike [Kubernetes](https://github.com/docs/deployment/kubernetes/digital-ocean.md), where separate containers are used for them.

:::
```

3. Select cluster tier (`M0 Sanbox` for sanbox environments, for production it is recommended to selec one of the paid tiers)
4. [**Optional**] Change cluster name

![Mongo cluster](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-create.png)

After cluster is created, You'll need to setup security
1. Select authentication type (username and password)

![Mongo setup authentication](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-create-password.png)

2. Add list of ip addresses, which should have access to your cluster. (Add `0.0.0.0/0` ip address to allow anyone with credentials connect to cluster)

![Mongo setup ip white list](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-create-ip-list.png)

Once database created, you'll land on dashboard page. Here you can get URI connection string by pressing `connect` button.

![Mongo dashboard](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-dashboard.png)

Select `Connect your application` option. Chose driver and mongo version, and copy connection string. Don't forget ro replace `<password>` with password, added in step 1

![Mongo connect dialog](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-connection-string.png)

> Navigate to Digital Ocean App and add connection string to application's environment variables (under `settings` tab)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save this value. It will be needed later when creating the app in Digital Ocean.
```

> ![Digital Ocean App's environment variables](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/mongo-add-variable.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Redis

> Navigate to [redis](https://redis.com/try-free/) and create an account.
> 
> Select cloud provider and region and press `Let's start free` to finish database creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to [Redis Cloud](https://redis.com/try-free/) and create an account. Select cloud provider and region, then press `Let's start free` to finish database creation.
```

![Redis create database](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/redis-creation.png)

> Open settings of created database by clicking on it.
> 
> On the settings screen you can find public endpoint of database aswell as its password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open database settings and get the database public endpoint and password.
```

![Redis public endpoint](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/redis-public-endpoint.png)
![Redis password](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/redis-password.png)

> Form redis connection string using public endpoint and password - `redis://:<password@<public-endpoint>` and add this to DO Application environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Form Redis connection string using public endpoint and password `redis://:<password@<public-endpoint>`. Save this value. It will be needed later when creating the app in Digital Ocean.
```

![Redis environment variable](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/redis-environment-variable.png)

> ## Deployment process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GitHub Actions
```

> You can find two github actions in `.github/workflows` folder, responsible for triggering deployment when you push changes in your repository. (If you chose frontend or backend on initialization step, you'll have one github workflow for selected application type)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find two github actions in the `.github/workflows` folder, responsible for triggering deployment when you push changes in your repository. If you chose frontend or backend on the initialization step, you'll have one github workflow for the selected application type.
```

> These actions requires access tokens to access your digital ocean space and ID of your digital ocean application.
> respectively theese are `DO_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `DO_APP_API_ID`/`DO_APP_WEB_ID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These actions require a Digital Ocean access token and application ID. Respectively these are `DO_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `DO_STAGING_API_ID`/`DO_STAGING_WEB_ID`/`DO_PRODUCTION_API_ID`/`DO_PRODUCTION_WEB_ID`.
```

Reviewer: create-ship-app should generate scripts bots for production and staging

> Navigate to digital ocean and open `API` tab in left side bar.
> Click `Generate new  token`, choose name and expiration period, leave checkboxes as they are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to digital ocean and open the **API** tab on the left sidebar.
Click **Generate new token** and choose name and expiration period, and leave checkboxes as they are.
```

![Do access token create](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/do-access-token-create.png)

> You'll see generated token in the list. Do not forget to copy value and store it in a safe place. You won't be able to copy value after leaving the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see generated token in the list. Do not forget to copy the value and store it in a safe place. You won't be able to copy value after leaving the page.
```

![Do access token copy](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/do-access-token-copy.png)

> Next, navigate to `Apps` tab in left sidebar and open your digital ocean application.
> 
> You can find id of your application id in browser address bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, navigate to the **Apps** tab in the left sidebar and open your Digital Ccean application. You can find the id of your application id in the browser address bar.
```

![Do application id](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/do-application-id.png)

> Now you can add theese keys to your github repository's secrets.
> 
> Navigate to gitbub repository page and open `settings` tab (You must have `admin` or `owner` role to open this tab).
> Open `secrets/Actions` tab and create three (two if you have only frontend/backend application) repository secrets -
> 
> * **DO_ACCESS_TOKEN** - Value of digital ocean personal access token.
> * **DO_APP_API_ID** and **DO_APP_WEB_ID** - Ids of digital ocean applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the GitHub repository page, and open the **Settings** tab and these values. You have to be repository **admin** or **owner** to open this tab.
```

> ![Github secrets](/img/deployment/digital-ocean-apps/github-secrets.png)

Reviewer: Pls update use next values on screenshot `DO_STAGING_API_ID`/`DO_STAGING_WEB_ID`
